# UUIDs
UUID (of GUIDs) are unique identifiers.

UUIDs have a variety of uses, including

- Temporary file names.
- Unique identifiers for website visitors.
- Transaction IDs.
- Primary keys, replacing database sequences.
- Generally, whenever unique values across different machines are needed, UUIDs are a good choice.
## What kind of data can you extract from an UUID?
A standard-conforming UUID may be one of several variants, it looks like this:

```
AAAAAAAA-BBBB-CCCC-DDDD-FFFFFFFFFFFF
```

The first (hex)digit of the DDDD part determines the variant.

- If it is one of 8,9,A,B it is conforming to the current spec (0-7 are reserved for backward compatibility,
  C,D are reserved for Microsoft, and E,F are reserved for future use)

If it conforms to the current spec, check the first digit of the CCCC part which determines the UUID version:

- Time-based with unique or random host identifier (MAC)
- DCE Security version (with POSIX UIDs)
- Name-based (MD5 hash)
- Random
- Name-based (SHA-1 hash)

- Version 4 is simply randomly chosen.
- Version 3 and 5 are generated by hashing and throwing away some bits which means you have basically
  no chance in recovering any information from it. Details on how to build it can be found in RFC4122 or at the UUID Generator webpage.
- I could not find any version 2 UUIDs so I didn't check how to extract the data.
- Version 1 is generated from a time-stamp and current host MAC address. (The standard also allows to use a random address instead
  if you set the "broadcast/multicast" bit of the MAC address.)
- And last but not least, there are several assigned UUIDs, for example for GPT partitions.

- [What kind of data can you extract from an UUID?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1709600/what-kind-of-data-can-you-extract-from-a-uuid)
- [OSSP - uuid](http://www.ossp.org/pkg/lib/uuid/)